chore: add readme (#5)
gastromatic/calendar-date: README.md

# calendar-date

A calendar date is a date without time information, e.g. "2020-01-01".
This library provides an immutable object to represent and work with a calendar date.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## Why another date library?

> There are a lot of date libraries in the javascript world, but there is currently no good support for representing a calendar date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a lot of date libraries in the javascript world, but there is currently adequate support for representing a calendar date.
```
maybe better?

Reviewer 2: typo: `no adequate`

Most SQL Databases like MySQL and PostgreSQL have a datatype for representing a date without time information.

> Using the build-in date object for a calendar date poses a number of disadvantages:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the built-in date object for a calendar date poses a number of disadvantages:
```

- Overhead by including time and timezone information in the representation.
- Error prone when working with different timezones and converting from and to Strings.
  For example `new Date(2020, 0, 1)` and `new Date('2020-01-01')` return date objects with a difference of one hour.

>   If you would call `toISOString()` on the first date object it would return 2019-12-31T23:00:00.000Z.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you would call `toISOString()` on the first date object it would return 2019-12-31T23:00:00.000Z. For the second you get 2020-01-01T01:00:00.000Z.
```

> - If you are using typescript you can not directly tell from the type information if the object is representing a timestamp or a calendar date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are using typescript you can not directly set any information if the object is representing a timestamp or a calendar date.
```

> - It's harder to compare two date objects if you don't know if the time and timezone information are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want to compare two calender dates it's hard to do it using built-in date objects if you don't have any time and timezone information.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Comparing two calendar dates by using the built-in date objects is hard if you don't have time and time information
```

## Features

- CalendarDate and CalendarDateRange
- Immutable API
- Written completely in typescript
- No external dependencies
- Tiny package size

## Getting Started

Install with yarn or npm:

```sh
yarn add calendar-date
```

or

```sh
npm install calendar-date
```

## Documentation

### CalendarDate

> You can construct a CalendarDate from an ISOString, a unix timestamp in seconds or the year, month and date values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can construct a CalendarDate from a String `YYYY-MM-DD` according to ISO 8601, a unix timestamp in seconds or the year, month and date values.
```

The following constructor calls return the same calendar date.

```typescript
new CalendarDate('2020-01-01');
new CalendarDate(1577833200);
new CalendarDate(2020, 0, 1);
```

The year, month, day and unix timestamp can be accessed as read-only properties on the object.

To compare to CalendarDate objects you can use the `equals` function or `>=` and `<=` operators.
The comparison works based on the unix timestamp.

```typescript
const date1 = new CalendarDate('2020-01-01');
const date2 = new CalendarDate('2020-01-01');
const date3 = new CalendarDate('2020-02-02');

date1.equals(date2) // true
date1.equals(date3) // false
date1 >= date2      // true
date1 >= date3      // false
date1 <= date3      // true
```
Utility Methods:
#### addMonths, addDays

> Returns a new CalendarDate with the specified amount of months or days added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a new CalendarDate with specified amount of months or days added.
```

Reviewer 2: It hurts to say this, but Patrick's version is correct :D

#### getLastDayOfMonth, getFirstDayOfMonth
Returns a new CalendarDate with the first or last day of the month.

#### getDifferenceInDays
Returns the difference in days between to CalendarDate objects.

### CalendarDateRange
You need two CalendarDate objects to construct a new CalendarDateRange.

> The first date needs to be before or equal to the second date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First CalenderDate needs to be before or equal to the second CalenderDate.
```

> If you set the optional `autoArrange` to true, the constructor will determine the correct order of the input Dates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set the optional `autoArrange` to true the constructor will determine the correct order of passed CalenderDates.
```

```typescript
const start = new CalendarDate('2020-01-01');
const end = new CalendarDate('2020-12-31');
new CalendarDateRange(start, end);

// OR

new CalendarDateRange(end, start, true);

// This will throw an error
new CalendarDateRange(end, start)
```

> You can also parse a CalendarDateRange from an ISOString representation with the format `YYYY-MM-DD/YYYY-MM-DD`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also parse a CalendarDateRange from a String representation with the format `YYYY-MM-DD/YYYY-MM-DD`:
```

```typescript
CalendarDateRange.parse('2020-01-01/2020-12-31');
```

> The start and end CalendarDates can be accessed as read-only properties on the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start and end CalendarDates can be accessed as read-only properties on the object.
```

To compare a CalendarDateRange you can use the `equals` method.

> It will return true if the start and end date represent the same CalendarDate for both CalendarDateRange objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will return true if start and end date represent the same CalendarDate for both CalendarDateRange objects.
```

#### includes

> Can be used to check if a CalendarDateRange or a CalendarDate is included in the Interval defined by the base CalendarDateRange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used to check if a CalendarDateRange or a CalendarDate is included in Interval defined by the base CalendarDateRange.
```

> By default the start and end date are included in the calculation, but you can omit them with the options parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default start and end CalenderDate are included in the calculation, but you can omit them with the options parameter:
```

```typescript
const date1 = new CalendarDate('2020-01-01');
const date2 = new CalendarDate('2020-02-01');
const date3 = new CalendarDate('2020-03-01');

const dateRange = new CalendarDateRange(date1, date3);

dateRange.includes(date1);                          // true
dateRange.includes(date1, { excludeStart: true});   // false
dateRange.includes(date2);                          // true
dateRange.includes(date2, { excludeEnd: true});     // false
dateRange.includes(date3);                          // true
```

#### getDifferenceInDays

> Returns the difference in days between the start and end of the CalendarDateRange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the difference in days between start and end of the CalendarDateRange.
```
